According to GoF definition, mediator pattern defines an object that encapsulates how a set of objects interact.
Mediator promotes loose coupling by keeping objects from referring to each other explicitly, and it lets us vary their interaction 
independently.

Mediator is a behavioral design pattern and one of other 23 patterns discussed by GoF

1. When to use mediator design pattern

Mediator helps in establishing loosely coupled communication between objects and helps in reducing the direct references to each other.
This helps in minimizing the complexity of dependency management and communications among participating objects.
Mediator helps to facilitate the interaction between objects in a manner in that objects are not aware of the existence of other objects.
Objects depend only on a single mediator class instead of being coupled to dozens of other objects.

During designing a solution to a problem, if you encounter a situation where multiple objects need to interact with each other to process the request,
but direct communication may create a complex system, you can consider using mediator pattern.

The pattern lets you extract all the relationships between classes into a separate class, isolating any changes to a specific component 
from the rest of the components.

2. Real world example of mediator pattern

good example of mediator pattern is a chat application. In a chat application we can have several participants.
It’s not a good idea to connect each participant to all the others because the number of connections would be really high.
The best solution is to have a hub where all participants will connect; this hub is just the mediator class.

Imagine that we need to develop a flight simulator. Our flight simulator will have base artifacts, like airport and aircraft. 
An aircraft can take off from the airport, fly in the sky and land on the airport.

Imagine a scenario when one particular aircraft is landing on the airport: how can that aircraft be sure that the other aircrafts are
not trying to land on the same airport at the same time? It is obvious that our aircraft can't talk to each 
and every aircraft which is currently approaching the airport.

A better approach would be to introduce a mediator, which is a "man in the middle",
meaning that all the aircrafts will communicate only with the mediator. The task of ensuring the safe operations of the aircrafts
belongs to air traffic controllers, who are mediators. They must coordinate the movements of all the aircrafts, keep them at safe
distances from each other, direct them during takeoff and landing, direct them around bad weather and ensure that the air traffic
flows smoothly with minimal delays.